our islands are now facing a problem so
large that we Hawaiians cannot solve it
alone Oh captain tell me true cuz my
darlin stay with you no she does not say
with me she sleeps on the bottom of the
sea what did the deep sea say tell me
what did the PC say it morning groan and
splash and it foamed and it rolled on
its weary way we're currently on Kamilo
Beach on the Big Island of Hawaii this
area is an accumulation point for marine
debris it's currently in the running for
the title of dirtiest Beach in the world
most of this debris is not from
Hawaiians themselves not from products
that are consumed here not from tourists
that use the beaches most of it comes
from what we call the Pacific Rim the
area on the continents surrounding
Hawaii the shores of Hawaii are littered
with the debris of civilization every
year the world produces nearly 150
billion kilograms of plastic it is
thought that as much as half ends up in
the environment once there it doesn't
break down it just accumulates the idea
that plastics are throwaway materials
they use once and toss that was a
concept developed to use the vast
productivity generated by our economic
system in World War two to keep it
moving keep it going after the war came
to a close it was decided well we'll
generate a throwaway Society this is in
part responsible for what you're seeing
here and I think if we had the tools to
be archeologists of plastic and to date
it we would find that some of the
particles here date from the dawn
the plastic era in the 1950s